## Presto TSC Meeting

### 2023-07-11
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

#### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.
* Every member is welcome; We are a transparent, collaborative community.
* We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone.

##### Antitrust Policy Notice

* Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

* Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

### Agenda
* Tim: TSC elections update
* Tim: New working groups need vote from TSC:
   * Architecture Working Group
      * Charter doc PR (under review): #114
      * Mailing list: https://lists.prestodb.io/g/architecture-wg
   * Native Worker Working Group
      * Charter doc PR (under review): #115
      * Mailing list: https://lists.prestodb.io/g/prestissimo-wg
* Ali: Migrating the website to Wordpress
* Aditi: Prestissimo SQL coverage and testing
* Steve B: Documentation updates
* Rohan: Github Issue Templates
* Tim: Design reviews for large contributions


### Attendance

#### Voting Members

* Deepak Majeti +
* James Sun
* Tim Meehan +
* Ying Su
* Aditi Pandit +
* Rebecca Schlussel +
* Beinan Wang +
* Zhenxiao Luo +
* Xiaoxuan Meng

"+" = attending


#### Other Attendees

* Pratyaksh Sharma
* Rohan (IBM)
* Steve Burnett (IBM)
* Ahana Notetaker (bot)
* Ali LeClerc
* Arpan Roy
* Amit Dutta
* Vivek Bharathan
* David Simmen
* Jalpreet Singh Nanda
* Manish Maheshwari
* Ying
* Kurt Taylor (Linux Foundation)


### Discussion Items

#### TSC elections update

* Tim congratulated the new [TSC voting representatives](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/tree/master#members)


#### New Working Groups

* Tim discussed the 2 new working groups
   * Architecture and Native Worker


#### Migrating the website to Wordpress

* Ali reviewed the plans for migrating the website to wordpress
* Discussed with other LF projects that had made the migtation, no problems encountered
* Rebecca asked if there would be a change in process, Ali commented no change in docs
* The TSC expressed no reservations on the migration


#### Prestissimo SQL coverage and testing

* Aditi presented the goal of having Presto java and Prestissimo having the same SQL documentation
* Created a doc to go over all data types, functions, statement syntax etc to analyze differences between SQL coverage for java and prestissimo workers
* [Link to presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ZD4Vc3HnESXQPj6LzTIjvyhrzPF3auuugXEDVOGLcsw/edit#slide=id.g25893109eea_0_0)
* For testing, prestissimo needs to be tested with different combinations of optimizer configuration properties, since they can influence the plan fragment
* Proposed to run prestissimo equivalent to presto-java tests (presto-tests and presto-product-tests) as part of build
   * Discussion ensued 
* Amit discussed CI testing, agreed to sync with Aditi after the meeting

#### Documentation updates

* Steve Burnett introduced himself and initiated a discussion on the need to update the documentation
   * How to make it welcoming for new people/contributors
   * Tim contributed ideas to areas of need and asked for other ideas for improvement
      * For example, many popular ways of deploying presto are currently missing
   * Rebecca asked Steve for ideas on how to engage developers to write documentation at the tim eof development


#### Github Issue Templates

* Rohan discussed bugs, support issues and feature requests
   * Create and update the templates to help the user to organize the issues and PRs
      * [PR created for the issue templates](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/20270)
      * [PR for Updating PR Template](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/20267)
      * Comments on release notes, discussion ensued


#### Design reviews for large contributions

* Tim discussed the need for a larger change to have a design review process in place, especially fo rnew committers
* Add more qualifications in the future, start with an informal initial process


##### Next meeting August 1, 2023
