## Presto TSC Meeting

### 2023-06-06
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

#### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* Every member is welcome; We are a transparent, collaborative community.
* We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

##### Antitrust Policy Notice

* Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

* Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

### Agenda
* **Tim**: TSC elections update
* **Tim**: [Longer term plan for committership and codeowners](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/19803)
* **Tim**: [Mentorship program](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/mentorship)
* **Tim**: New working group proposal: roadmapping/architecture working group


### Attendance
#### Voting members

* Deepak Majeti
* James Sun
* Tim Meehan +
* Ying Su +
* Rebecca Schlussel +
* Rongrong Zhong
* Zhenxiao Luo
+ = attending


#### Attendees

* Steve Burnett
* Pranjal Shankhdar
* Beinan Wang
* Ahana Notetaker
* George Wang
* Pratyaksh Sharma
* Jalpreet Singh Nanda
* Rohan (IBM)
* Vivek Bharathan
* Aditi Pandit
* David Simmen
* Chunxu Tang
* George
* Linsong Wang
* Amit Dutta
* Xinli Shang


### Action Items

***ACTION*** Kurt to get more information on the LF LFX mentorship program 

### Discussion Items

#### TSC elections update

* Tim recapped the election plans and timeline
* Currently in nominations phase through June 9th


#### [Longer term plan for committership and codeowners](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/19803)

* Tim described the proposal
* When to become a committer/maintainer
* Guidance from the project on the path
* Codeowners file for committers, RFC for responsibilities and guidance
* What to do with the code without a maintainer, backup codeowners
* Tim volunteered to fill in codeowners file
* Aditi asked about the approval process
* Tim is proposing committer = codeowner


#### [Mentorship program](https://docs.linuxfoundation.org/lfx/mentorship)

* Tim discussed the mentorship - a clear onboarding path is needed
* Need better getting started documentation
* Enable mentors to help with onboarding
* Start mentorship program - use LF process for requesting and matching up mentors/mentees
* Need a public backlog - ideas for work that needs to happen, that there is not currently cycles for
* Requirements to become a mentor - find volunteers, do a better job of highlighting/showcase being a mentor and contributions
  * Need to be a committer
  * Targeting ~1-2 hours a week working with mentees
  * Pratyaksh proposed that people with deep open source experience who is not a codeowner may also be able to help a mentor, like a mentor buddy


#### New working group proposal: roadmapping/architecture working group

* Tim proposed a roadmap working group - articulating architecture and priorities
* Document where the project going, what is the direction
* Aid in prioritizing backlog
* Contributor guidance on top priorities
* Big task, needs to be handled by a working group that will discuss and document
  * Example C++ direction, what happens to all the java workers
* David supported the proposal, suggested that the project might be in trouble without this document
  * Asked how the decisions made in the working group get ratified by the TSC
  * Tim added that the TSC would approve and enforce the decisions made, TSC would resolve conflicts
  * Rebecca noted that communication of the priorities would also be essential
  * Discussion ensued
* All agreed on the formation of the working group

##### Next meeting July 11, 2023
