## Presto TSC Meeting

### 2023-08-01
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

#### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.
* Every member is welcome; We are a transparent, collaborative community.
* We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone.

##### Antitrust Policy Notice

* Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

* Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

### Agenda

* Amit Dutta: Talk about Prestissimo Production in Meta (~30 mins)
* Jalpreet Singh: Donating AWS Lake Formation in Presto
* Tim Meehan: Flaky tests
* Rebecca Schlussel: Optimizer Working Group

### Attendance

#### Voting Members

* Deepak Majeti
* James Sun
* Tim Meehan +
* Ying Su
* Aditi Pandit +
* Rebecca Schlussel +
* Beinan Wang +
* Zhenxiao Luo
* Xiaoxuan Meng

"+" = attending


#### Other Attendees

* Ethan Zhang
* Steve Burnett
* Yi-Hong Wang
* Masha
* Kiersten Stokes
* David Simmen
* Jalpreet Singh	Nanda
* Bill McKenna
* Vivek
* Ahana Notetaker
* Amit Dutta
* Naomi Washington (The Linux Foundation)

### Discussion Items

#### Working Group Update

* Tim discussed the kickoff of the new working groups. How to join will be added to the website.
    * Security: https://lists.prestodb.io/g/presto-security-wg/
    * Architecture/Roadmapping: https://lists.prestodb.io/g/architecture-wg
    * Native worker/Prestissimo: https://lists.prestodb.io/g/native-worker-wg
 
#### Donating AWS Lake Formation in Presto

* Jalpreet gave an introduction and announced they would like to open source the AWS Lake Formation to the community.
* Jalpreet proceeded to give a presentation on the presto authorization models and the motivation behind integrating them.
* Tim asked if there are restrictions on the format.
    * There are no restrictions and can use normal open data formats
* Jalpreet walked through the automation flow and discussed that the template credentials are on the worker side.
* Masha inquired if the checks happen before queuing or after and how long temp credentials are valid.
* Jalpreet gave a demo
* Conversation ensued over chat messages

#### Talk about Prestissimo Production in Meta
* Amit gave an introduction to presto worker implementation in C++ and why there is a need for a new worker implementation.
* Amit then went over the high-level design: existing java coordinator, new C++ worker, cluster, and trade-offs
    * Use cases:
        * Meta warehouse
        * Experimentation platform - preferred first-use case
* Amit then moved on to discuss production including set-up, highlights, correctness/stability, monitoring/security, routing/back-up
* Amit closed out the presentation with the next steps which included testing
* Tim posed that the role out and monitoring sounds like the Meta approach to getting prestissimo out and is this the external approach as well to for anyone who wants to use it?
    * There will be forthcoming plans on how someone can start the prestissimo and presto clusters.

#### Optimizer Working Group
* Tim discussed creating an optimizer working group. There were no objections, so the group will be created. Tim will share details.

#### Flaky Tests






